
VULNERABILITY ALERT
-------------------

Vulnerability:       COSIGN-VULN-2009-001
Application:         cosign
Affected Versions:   2.1.0 and previous
Vulnerability Type:  Cross-site scripting (XSS) reflection
Severity:            Potential attacker modification of login page
Attack:              Proof-of-concept
Software Website:    http://weblogin.org/ 
Contact:             cosign@umich.edu
Dates:               2009-03-24 (discovered); 2009-03-31 (public disclosure)


OVERVIEW
--------

A cross-site scripting (XSS) reflection vulnerability has been discovered in the
cosign.cgi that may allow an attacker to modify the login page presented to the
user by the weblogin server. Organizations running their own central cosign
weblogin server should upgrade the weblogin server to cosign 2.1.1, or backport
the patch available at http://weblogin.org/download.html to the version of
cosign they are running.

Cosign 2.1.1 only modifies the cosign.cgi. The filters are unchanged.


BACKGROUND
----------

cosign is a web single-sign-on system.  Written at the University of Michigan,
cosign is an open source software project and a part of the National Science
Foundation Middleware Initiative (NMI) EDIT software release.  cosign is
deployed extensively at the University of Michigan and at educational
institutions and other organizations around the world.
 
cosign consists of two primary components:  the central weblogin server and
cosign-protected web servers.  The central weblogin server consists of a
cosign CGI (logs users in and out), the cosign daemon (manages information
about the state of the session for each authenticated user), and various
administrative scripts.  Each cosign-protected web server runs a filter
which communicates with the daemon via a text-based protocol to assure that
users who access protected areas of the web site are authenticated.  Users
must authenticate to CGI on the central weblogin server before they are
permitted access to a protected service. 

Both the CGI as well as the filter on each cosign-protected web server set
their own cookie in users' browsers for the purpose of uniquely identifying
the user's session.  These cookie values are random strings.

Additional background details are available at
http://weblogin.org/overview.html


TECHNICAL DETAILS
-----------------

An attacker can trick a user into following a link which submit in an HTTP POST
a specially crafted user name to the weblogin server's cosign.cgi. The login
attempt will fail, leading the cosign.cgi to send the browser the login error
page. The login error page is based on a template containing a handful of
variables, including one representing the user's login name. The cosign.cgi
substitutes the real values for these variables before sending the error page to
the browser. Most fields are escaped, but the cosign.cgi does not escape the
user name when sending the login error page back to the user's web browser,
instead treating the specialized user name as valid HTML. The attacker can add
anything to or replace anything in the weblogin page following the login form
field, potentially tricking the user into submitting sensitive information
(SSNs, passwords, bank information) to a location of the attacker's choice.

The attack depends on getting the user to load the central weblogin page first,
as the user must have a cosign cookie set in their browser before the cosign.cgi
will accept a login attempt. The proof-of-concept attack uses an iframe which
loads the weblogin page, thereby setting a valid cosign cookie, before
submitting the specially crafted HTTP POST to the cosign.cgi. Users who have
configured their browsers only to accept cookies from the current page are not
vulnerable, unless they have previously visited the weblogin page and did not
log in.

NOTE: The information above is intended as a description of the vulnerability
and not as a test for use in determining whether a weblogin server is
vulnerable.  The attack described above may require tweaking in order to be
used against an actual cosign installation.



ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
----------------------

cosign 2.1.1 and the patch available at http://weblogin.org/download.html fix
the vulnerability by escaping the user name before sending it back to the
browser.

The cosign filters are not affected.

Organizations that have questions regarding cosign, or that need assistance
with upgrading cosign to a non-vulnerable version or back-porting the patch
to an older version, can contact the cosign development team at
cosign@umich.edu.


TIMELINE
--------

2009-03-24  Report from Noah Botimer suggesting the presence of an XSS
            vulnerability in the cosign.cgi.

2009-03-24  cosign development team informed of vulnerability.

2009-03-24  Patch tested and deployed on University of Michigan weblogin
            servers.

2009-03-26  Private disclosure to non University of Michigan members of the
            cosign-announce and cosign-discuss mailing lists, to permit them
            to address the vulnerability on their weblogin servers before
            public disclosure of the vulnerability.

2009-03-31  Public disclosure. Release of cosign 2.1.1.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
---------------

Thanks to Noah Botimer from the University of Michigan for discovering the
vulnerability and notifying the cosign development team.

